---
layout: page
title: FLL
permalink: /FLL/
---

{{ site.title }} will be hosting [FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg;
League](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/fll "FLL Information Page") teams
for the 2018-2019 season. FLL is a team challenge for 4th (we start with 6th
graders) through 8th grade students, supervised by two or more adult coaches.
See this
[infographic](http://info.firstinspires.org/hubfs/stem-bundle/FLL_Start_a_Team_Infographic.pdf
"FLL Infographic") for a quick overview.

## Questions for Students

### What grade do I need to be in to participate?

Because this is a Lake Middle School Student Activity Program, students must be
between 6th to 8th grade.

### Do I need a computer?

Not necessarily. At least one computer will be needed per team.

### When can I sign up?

More information will be coming soon.

## Questions for Parents

### How much is the 2018-2019 season fee going to be?

More information will be coming soon.

### How often do the children meet?

More information will be coming soon.

### How much time is involved?


More information will be coming soon.

### My child attends a different school in District 833. Can he/she still participate?

If there is no similar offering at your student's school, they can participate
here. Currently there is no similar program at Woodbury Middle School or New
Life Academy, so those students are eligible to participate.

## Questions for Coaches #

### What do we need to do for background checks? ##

There are two background checks we must complete. One is for the District 833
school system. You can initiate this process by filling out this
[PDF](http://www.sowashco.org/files/department/communications/files/Volunteers/2016VolunteerApplicationForm.pdf)
and turning it into the main office. The office will contact you with
instructions on how to complete an on-line submission form with Trusted
Employees, and it costs $10.25 to fill out.

The second background check is with FIRST, who uses Verified Volunteers to
conduct the check. Although FIRST does not require mentors to pay the $8.00 for
the background check, it is encouraged. Like the Trusted Employees system,
Verified Volunteers is an on-line web form that takes only a few minutes to
complete.

### How often do the coaches meet?

More information to come.

## Questions for Everyone

### What is Basecamp, and how to I use it?

[Basecamp](https://3.basecamp.com) is a project management platform that
includes an instant message service, message board, calendar, document sharing,
and todo list management. It is the primary source of communication and
management for the club.

There are different "teams" in Basecamp, one called "Leopard Robotics HQ", one
called "FLL Mentors", and one for each Team we have. We can also create separate
"Projects" as needed.

Basecamp includes both a website as well as mobile clients for all smart phones.
You can receive emails for all updates, or you can quiet things down. Basecamp
help site provides most details.

## How are the finances going to work? How will we collect fees?

The Leopard Robotics Club operates as a Student Activity Account through Lake
Middle School. Gifts and donations are tax deductible. Budget details are
currently forming.

Participation fees are collected at Lake Middle School along with the Behavior
Contract distributed to participants after they sign up.

## Roughly, when are the competitions going to be?

Challenges are released in August. For more information, visit
[firstlegoleague.org](https://www.firstlegoleague.org "FIRST LEGO League Primary
Website").

# Questions for Sponsors

## Can we accept gifts from sponsors? Will it be tax deductible?

Gifts can be issued to Lake Middle School for the purpose of the robotics club.
Gifts are subject to school Board approval. All gifts are tax deductible. If you
are interested in providing a gift, please send an [email][info], and we'll get
back to you as soon as we can.

[info]: mailto:{{ site.email }}
