---
layout: post
title:  "STEM Outreach at Liberty Ridge Elementary"
date:   2018-02-22 21:00:00 -0500
categories: update
---

Tuesday evening on February 22, 2018 at the Liberty Ridge Elementary School, the
gymnasium was packed with amazing science experiments conducted and presented by
the hopeful youth of Woodbury. _8-Bit Leopards_ and _The MEME Team_, having recently
finished their competition season in late January, visited for a friendly bit of
competition and to share their experiences with the curious students and parents
of Liberty Ridge.

From 6:00 PM to 7:10, the two teams prepared their robots for the match,
practicing in the game field. Some lucky elementary students got to drive the
bots, collecting the glyphs from the center of the field and placing them in the
cryptoboxes. Parents commented on how they would have loved to have something
these bots when they were younger and were excited that in the very near future,
their kids may soon be part of these very teams.

At 7:10, Kyle Mestery, lead mentor for _8-Bit Leopards_ introduced the teams,
their bots, and talked a bit about FIRST Tech Challenge. Devan Lauren Vance from
_8-Bit Leopards_ and Connor Walstrom from _The MEME Team_ addressed the crowd,
explaining what the objectives of the match were and what they were about to see
the bots do. With a quick countdown, the bots went in to action.

In autonomous mode, the bots each obtained their primary objectives. _The MEME
Team_ entered the safe spot, while _8-Bit Leopards_ knocked off a valuable jewel.

In tele-op mode, recently damaged Twitchy, _the MEME Team_ bot, managed to push
three glyphs into the cryptobox with its unusable arm before coming to a halt in
front of the balance tile -- the REV Hub having lost connection. _The 8-Bit
Leopards_ bot successfully deposited a number of glyphs into the cryptobox and
attempted to get back on to the balance tile.

It was great to see the excited and interested faces of the crowd, parents and
students alike. With registration soon to open for the 2018-2019 season, please
look to this space for updates and consider mentoring! With a great level of
interest, we need an equally great level of support.
